feat: controlled fields (#92)
airjp73/remix-validated-form: apps/docs/app/routes/reference/use-control-field.mdx

---
meta:
  title: useControlField (Remix Validated Form)
---

import { PropHeader } from "~/components/PropHeader";
import { Alert } from "~/components/Alert";

<PropHeader
  variant="h1"
  prop="useControlField"
  type="<T>(field: string, formId?: string) => [T, (value: T) => void]"
/>

Used for tracking the value of a field in state.
The return signature is the same as the React's own `useState`,
but this hook does a few things for you automatically.

- The value is automatically defaulted to the default value of the field.
- The value is globally accessible for a specific form.
- The value can be updated from anywhere.
- `validate` function will automatically wait for the value to be fully updated before performing the validation.

_Note:_ If you call this hook multiple times with the same field name,
it will always return the same value, assuming both calls are in the context of the same form.

The companion hook [`useUpdateControlledField`](/reference/use-update-controlled-field) can also be used
to update the value being tracked with this hook.

## Controlled Components

> This hookcan make it easy to integrate controlled components.

Author: ```suggestion
This hook can make it easy to integrate controlled components.
```

        options={options}
        selectedOptions={value}
        onSelectionChange={(newSelection) => {
          setValue(newSelection);
          validate();
        }}
      />
      {error && (
        <span className="my-error-class">{error}</span>
      )}
    </div>
  );
```

## Globally tracking / updating all fields

If you regularly have advanced use-cases that require updating field values,
you may opt to track field state in all fields.
This is as simple as adding `useControlField` to all your input components.

_Note_: This would prevent you from using repeated fields.
In this case, you would favor using [array syntax](/arrays-and-nested) instead.

Here's a modified version of `MyInput` from the [integrate your components](/integrate-your-components) page.

```tsx
import {
  useField,
  useControlField,
} from "remix-validated-form";

type MyInputProps = {
  name: string;
  label: string;
};

export const MyInput = ({ name, label }: MyInputProps) => {
  const { error, getInputProps } = useField(name);
  const [value, setValue] = useControlField(name);
  return (
    <div>
      <label htmlFor={name}>{label}</label>
      <input
        {...getInputProps({

>           value,

Author: ```suggestion
          id: name,
          value,
```
